DATA EXTRAPOLATION
Data extrapolation was implemented into the simulation. This allowed for 
comparisons of difference and efficiency between various maps that the 
simulation emulates. The implementation starts with recording data from 
data sources. These are predefined and, aggregate or non-aggregate. 

They are in the form of linked hash maps and levy Repast’s integrated 
ability to pass agents and objects towards the correct data source. For 
instance, the simulation model records an aggregate data source for average 
speed. This data source calls the getVelocity() method of all vehicle 
agents in the simulation at each time step. The aggregate operation 
carried out on the results of getVelocity() is attaining the mean. 

To assist in this, Repast has a data set descriptor 
repast.simphony.data2.engine.DataSetDescriptor to define the datasets 
that are being created and is in XML.

To visualize the extrapolated data being collected from the data sources, 
the data is plotted against tick count on a time series type chart. Repast 
has an integrated ability to create various charts from the data sources 
defined. For instance, in the case of the average speed of vehicles, the 
descriptor below was used to define attributes of a time series chart, 
where the x-axis has the tick count and y-axis has the mean speed. This 
is shown in figure xx. The descriptor is defined in XML and is 
repast.simphony.chart2.engine.TimeSeriesChartDescriptor.

 

Figure xx. Time series chart for average speed calculated at tick count.

The simulation stores data collected from the data sources and writes 
the data into a sink text file. This makes use of Repast’s ability to 
write data to both file and console. Each data source is assigned a data 
set ID which helps separate the data and write each ID in a set column. 
The follow shows resultant data stored for average speed. As seen in the 
output, the sink file structures the data collected from each data 
source in a tabular format. 

"AverageSpeed","tick"
1.1900000000000002,1.0
2.3800000000000003,2.0
3.5699999999999985,3.0

Listing xx. Signal Green simulation output.

POLICY COMPARISONS
The simulation was used with several parameters and maps to allow for 
road network and policy comparisons. Three maps was being used presently,
large New York, small New York and New Jersey. What is being examined 
presently is the change in behavior when the following parameters are 
adjusted; number of vehicles, traffic lights and give way signs. The
data being extrapolated to analyse change is the speed of the vehicles.

Small New York map (nyc_small.shp) covers an area of approximately 20km^2. 
This model does not account for alleys, smaller streets but only avenues. It 
is set at 10,000 vehicles to account for peak hours and 1,000 to simulate 
late night.

Figure xx. Legend displaying palette used to visualise speed of individual
vehicle agents in the simulation.

Traffic lights policy was simulated on this map with parameters set as
10,000 vehicles and 1000 ticks. The data shows a gradual increment of 
average speed to a maximum of 41. It also shows very heavy concentration 
is being built up at junctions.
Figure xx.
Figure xx.

1,000 vehicles and 1000 ticks. With these parameters the data shows a 
sharp increase in average speed to a maximum of 95. The data shows dense 
concentration across popular routes and junctions.
Figure xx.
Figure xx.

Give way policy was simulated on this map with parameters set as
1,000 vehicles and 1000 ticks. This led to one of the fastest average
speed recorded with it being a maximum of 110. The data shows similar 
density to the traffic lights policy with the same number of vehicles.
Figure xx.
Figure xx.

10,000 vehicles and 1000 ticks was not carried out as the simulation 
would not accurately cope with such a high density of vehicles. 
Furthemore, vehicles could potentially suffer accidents that have yet to be modelled. 

The following is a summary in tabular form for policies tested on this map:
Policy          No. of Vehicles      Ticks      Average Speed
Traffic Light   10,000               1,000      40  
Give Way        10,000               1,000      -
Traffic Light   1,000                1,000      88
Give Way        1,000                1,000      105.7

SignalGreen shows us that average speed with give way policies is higher 
because cars need to stop less frequently than when with traffic lights. 
The data shows tht give way policies would be more desirable in non-metropolitan 
areas, but it would be too risky in more densily populated areas such Manhattan.
A mix of the two is then the best trade-off between a higher speed and 
security of population and drivers. Moreover, the difference in distribution 
between give way and traffic light policies when using a 1,000 vehicles has 
no significant difference.

New Jersey map (new_jersey.shp) covers a much more complex infastructure. 
Below it is set at 2,000 vehicles with 1000 ticks to analyse the give way 
and traffic light policies.

Traffic lights policy was simulated on the model where the data shows a 
steep climb to the maximum average speed of 110 and then remaining around 105.
Although the traffic light junctions are congested with queues.
Figure xx.
Figure xx.

The give way policy was run using the same parameters and the result was a 
constant average speed of 110. Furthermore, vehicles were scattered evenly with 
only a small number of queues present.
Figure xx.
Figure xx.

The following is a summary in tabular form for policies tested on this map:
Policy          No. of Vehicles      Ticks      Average Speed
Traffic Light   2,000               1,000      105  
Give Way        2,000               1,000      100


POTENTIAL FUTURE COMPARISONS
In future, there are alternative ways that can be used to analyse 
traffic policies. For instance, computing routes or segments that are 
most popularly travelled by vehicles. Also, busiest intersections that 
lie between those very routes. It is also important to facilitate a 
combination of these policies such as traffic lights and give way 
signs to truely find tuned policies and routes.
